KEYCLOAK-11803 Vault support for RH-SSO openshift image (#832)
keycloak/keycloak-documentation: openshift/topics/advanced_concepts.adoc

See xref:Example-EAP-Manual[Example Workflow: Manually Configure an Application to Use {project_name} Authentication, Using SAML Client] for an end-to-end example of the manual {project_name} client registration method using a SAML client.

> === Using {project_name} vault with Openshift secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Using {project_name} vault with OpenShift secrets
```

> === Using {project_name} vault with Openshift secrets

Reviewer 2: OpenShift

> . Specify a directory for the vault using the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable. Add following snippets to your template: (Alternatively you can add *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* variable to the environment in your deployment's configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify a directory for the vault using the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable. You can introduce the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable directly in the environment in your deployment configuration. It can also be included in the template by addding thew following snippets at the appropriate places in the template:
```

> . Specify a directory for the vault using the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable. Add following snippets to your template: (Alternatively you can add *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* variable to the environment in your deployment's configuration)

Reviewer 2: you can add "the"..

+
[source,json,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
"parameters": [
    ...
    {
        "displayName": "RH-SSO Vault Secret directory",
        "description": "Path to the RH-SSO Vault directory.",
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "",
        "required": false
    }
    ...
]

env: [
    ...
    {
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "${SSO_VAULT_DIR}"
    }
    ...
]
----

> . Create a secret in your openshift cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a secret in your OpenShift cluster:
```

> . Create a secret in your openshift cluster:

Reviewer 2: OpenShift

+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
$ oc create secret generic rhsso-vault-secrets --from-literal=master_smtp__password=mySMTPPsswd
----

> . Mount a volume to your deployment config using the `${SSO_VAULT_DIR}` as path. For already running deployment:

Reviewer 2: as "the" path.  For a deployment that is already running:

+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
oc set volume dc/sso --add --mount-path=${SSO_VAULT_DIR} --secret-name=rhsso-vault-secrets
----

> . Now after a pod is created you can use specially crafted string within your {project_name} configuration. For example for using `mySMTPPsswd` created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp_password}` within `realm-name` realm as your smtp password and it will be replaced by `mySMTPPsswd` on demand.

Reviewer: Please wrap the lines after ~ 80 chars to ease PR review

```suggestion
. Now after a pod is created you can use specially crafted string within your {project_name} configuration to refer to the secret. For example, for using `mySMTPPsswd` secret created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp_password}` within `realm-name` realm in the configuration of the smtp password and it will be replaced by `mySMTPPsswd` when used.
```

> . Now after a pod is created you can use specially crafted string within your {project_name} configuration. For example for using `mySMTPPsswd` created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp_password}` within `realm-name` realm as your smtp password and it will be replaced by `mySMTPPsswd` on demand.

Reviewer 2: ... you can use a "customized string"..

----
"parameters": [
    ...
    {
        "displayName": "RH-SSO Vault Secret directory",
        "description": "Path to the RH-SSO Vault directory.",
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "",
        "required": false
    }
    ...
]

env: [
    ...
    {
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "${SSO_VAULT_DIR}"
    }
    ...
]
----

. Create a secret in your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
$ oc create secret generic rhsso-vault-secrets --from-literal=master_smtp__password=mySMTPPsswd
----

. Mount a volume to your deployment config using the `${SSO_VAULT_DIR}` as the path.
For a deployment that is already running:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
oc set volume dc/sso --add --mount-path=${SSO_VAULT_DIR} --secret-name=rhsso-vault-secrets
----

. Now after a pod is created you can use a customized string within your {project_name} 
configuration to refer to the secret. For example, for using `mySMTPPsswd` secret 
created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp_password}` within `realm-name` 
realm in the configuration of the smtp password and it will be replaced by `mySMTPPsswd` when used.

> 

Reviewer 3: @martin-kanis LGTM. 

Nitpicking thoug: Is the vault support / feature for the RH-SSO for OpenShift image somehow related with the Keycloak / RH-SSO server's SMTP (email) configuration? Or was that example chosen just by coincidence?

If the latter (the vault support in the image is not limited to / specific to the SMTP server password configuration in the image), I would rather prefer a more general example. Or if `${value.smtp_password}` is the preferred form / example to keep, I would highlight in the documention yet, the above SMTP configuration is just one example of (more) possible vault configuration, but it can be used for other use cases too.

Maybe something like `For example, to configure SMTP password for the {project_name} server using the vault feature, you can use `${vault.smtp_password]` ....`?

The rest LGTM. Thanks!

See xref:Example-EAP-Manual[Example Workflow: Manually Configure an Application to Use {project_name} Authentication, Using SAML Client] for an end-to-end example of the manual {project_name} client registration method using a SAML client.

=== Using {project_name} vault with OpenShift secrets
Several fields in the {project_name} administration support obtaining the value

>  of a secret from an external vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 of a secret from an external vault, see link:{adminguide_link}#_vault-administration[{adminguide_name}].
```

The following example shows how to set up the files plaintext vault in OpenShift

>  for SMTP password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and set it up to be used for obtaining SMTP password.
```

. Specify a directory for the vault using the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable. 
You can introduce the *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable directly in the environment in your deployment configuration. It can also be included in the template by addding the following snippets at the appropriate places in the template:
+
[source,json,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
"parameters": [
    ...
    {
        "displayName": "RH-SSO Vault Secret directory",
        "description": "Path to the RH-SSO Vault directory.",
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "",
        "required": false
    }
    ...
]

env: [
    ...
    {
        "name": "SSO_VAULT_DIR",
        "value": "${SSO_VAULT_DIR}"
    }
    ...
]
----

+
[NOTE]
====
The files plaintext vault provider will be configured only when you set
 *_SSO_VAULT_DIR_* environment variable.
====

. Create a secret in your OpenShift cluster:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----

> $ oc create secret generic rhsso-vault-secrets --from-literal=master_smtp__password=mySMTPPsswd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc create secret generic rhsso-vault-secrets --from-literal=master_smtp-password=mySMTPPsswd
```

----

. Mount a volume to your deployment config using the `${SSO_VAULT_DIR}` as the path.
For a deployment that is already running:
+
[source,bash,subs="attributes+,macros+"]
----
oc set volume dc/sso --add --mount-path=${SSO_VAULT_DIR} --secret-name=rhsso-vault-secrets
----

> . Now after a pod is created you can use a customized string within your {project_name} 

Reviewer 2: No need for "Now"
Also should be within "the" 'master' realm

configuration to refer to the secret. For example, for using `mySMTPPsswd` secret 

> created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp_password}` within `realm-name` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created in this tutorial, you can use `${vault.smtp-password}` within `realm-name` 
```
